[Music]
today a conversation with someone Tom
wolf would have described as a master of
the universe someone who works on the
commanding heights of the American
financial system during the
administration of President George W
Bush Kevin wash served a special
assistant to the President and executive
secretary of the White House National
Economic Council from 2006 to 2011 he
served on the board of governors of the
Federal Reserve System Kevin now works
in New York with the legendary investor
Stanley Druckenmiller and serves as a
fellow here at the Hoover Institution
Kevin thanks for making the time to join
us either thanks very much it's great to
be back on the show okay so before and
after I'm gonna take a moment to set
this up before the coronavirus and I'm
taking this from a piece that you
published in The Wall Street Journal in
late February just weeks ago quote US
workers incomes were growing at the
fastest rate in a generation the
unemployment rate was at a 50-year low
profits for US businesses were near
cyclical highs productivity had improved
markedly in the past year close quote
that's the before picture here's the
after picture and I'm quoting this from
a news item that I picked up in the
journal I think was yesterday or the day
before many economists now expect the US
economy to experience a severe recession
goldman sachs economists see it
contracting at an annualized rate of 24%
during the April to June quarter Morgan
Stanley sees the unemployment rate
rising to twelve point eight percent
this spring the highest since the
records began to be kept in 1948 close
quote this is a this is a calamity is am
I correct so it's the biggest supply
shock to the economy in a hundred years
so in that sense it's every bit as big a
deal as we've suffered and in some sense
a bigger more consequential shock than
we had in 2008 and 9 when I was last in
government but I
if you go back to what I wrote a few
weeks ago in February when I explained
the moment' of the economy the rest of
that passage was about the risks that
were at the doorstep right I think when
we look back over this period we're
going to see the 2008 crisis as one
bookend the 2020 pandemic as another and
we're going to look at the period
between the wars and ask the question
what did we do
did we position the economy to withstand
a shock or did we act to complacently in
the conduct of policy alright can you
let me do a little layman stuff and
which is very easy for me because I am a
total layman this give me some economics
101 we have shut down everybody except
essential services I am whatever else I
may be I am non-essential a substantial
portion of the economy is just closed
down go to the grocery store and there
are empty shelves in odd places
there was no flour the other day
apparently people were deciding to bake
at home but restaurants closed the
drycleaner is closed
the barber shop is closed what happens
we've closed down the economy now we've
been in a differs a little bit from
region to region but fundamentally we've
had 15 days already if this shut down
and the president announced the other
day that he expects it to last another
month just tell us how to think through
what happens when we put the economy
into an induced coma right so the
economy has suffered from a sudden stop
and I should say that Peter you were my
teacher 30 years ago so I'm not sure I
anomic so I would not describe you as a
perfect layman here but we put the
economy into a sudden stop now
government officials have put the
economy's in recession before just never
on purpose
this time we've done it on purpose and
that makes it a radically different
period so what happens my by my
estimation about 40 percent of consumer
spending has been turned off
that is 40% of consumer spending does
not exist now that would have existed
for six weeks ago consumption is
two-thirds of output so that's a
recession in and of itself
now of course business investment and
seeing the shortfall in demand seeing
the path of government policy and also
radically pulling back so this is more
fundamental and the weaknesses are more
balanced between the consumer pull back
in the business pull back than we had in
2008 just again for context in 2008 our
worst quarterly GDP was in the fourth
quarter of 2008 GDP fell by about eight
and a half percent I think we lost
something like eight hundred forty
thousand jobs that month those numbers
are going to look quaint in a very short
time but even during that period leader
consumption pulled back to the tune of
three to five percent being the consumer
was hanging in there so you can get a
sense just from this description how
fundamentally different this is alright
now one more sort of economics 101
question here why can't
what are we concerned about what would
you you were in the Fed you're you're
out in and you're still a policymaker
and you practice business but you're at
the Hoover Institution so it so you get
paid to think about these things Kevin
why can't we just say alright look we've
got a rough patch here maybe 45 days
maybe 60 and then we flip the switch
everybody goes back to work of course it
does it can't that can't quite happen
but why not what are the things what
what are the chief concerns for a policy
maker looking at this shutdown well I'd
say the way you described it is probably
the the dominant consensus and economics
profession we pulled back on aggregate
demand that pull back will last 30 to
120 days the government will fill that
hole in aggregate demand through this
two trillion dollar stimulus bill and
will come out and I find the other end
you cited at the beginning of this
discussion the goldman sachs piece that
came out last couple days i believe they
said something like second
quarter GDP will be down 34 percent but
then there'll be a big bounce back in
the third quarter to the tune of 19 or
20 percent and most economists most
professors in different parts of find
institutions like Stanford they well we
have a fall and aggregate demand and
we'll fill it
that's not my judgment that's not my
views so the way this stated simply is
the economy in the u.s. is not a pop-up
store you can't just turn it on
you can't just fill it up with demand by
having consumers show up and fill it up
with supply and go back to the races the
economy is a very complex organism its
dynamism its various pieces or weight
but make the US economy the most dynamic
the most innovative but also when
confronted by a shop like this it
suggests to me that sudden stops aren't
replaced with sudden starts all right
all right we'll come back to that this
is not going to be a cheerful
conversation as a captain you are
ordinarily the most cheerful of men but
this is we have bad news to face more
economics 101 can you distinguish for me
just just as if you were in an opening
classier distinguish between monetary
and fiscal policy well it's a good
question it's one that I'd like to harp
on because in times of crisis monetary
policy and fiscal policy can blur
sometimes with the excitement of members
of the United States Congress so let's
go back to first principles yeah
monetary policy by its very name has
something to do with money
monetary policy is what central bankers
do that's the conduct of money in the
economy the conduct of credit in the
economy the conduct of liquidity in the
economy that's why we've given
independent central banks around the
world special Authority which is
powerful but I would say reasonably
narrowly construed in normal times but
importantly monetary policy in my
framework which is again a little bit
different than and perhaps most in the
profession monetary policy shouldn't be
fine-tuning too much in peace' times
but when there's a shot of war monetary
policy was born to be aggressive and
this central bank of the United States
the Federal Reserve now after its
hundred year anniversary came into being
after the panic of 1907 so in my view
it's a crisis fighter and a crisis
fighter with monetary policy you know
well in your piece in the journal in
February you quote Milton Friedman I'm
this this is you wrote quote quoting you
Milton Friedman stated that now
recording Milton monetary policy can
contribute to offsetting major
disturbances in the economic system
arising from other sources close quote
back to you Friedman was no fine tuner
but he didn't believe in passivity
during times of trouble either
close quote so I'll ask you in a moment
to give you a critique of how the Fed
has behaved but as a matter of general
principle what should the Fed be doing
how should we think about this engine of
liquidity in the economy so my judgment
no doubt affected tremendously by Milton
on campus thirty years ago who was a
dear colleague of both of ours and his
spirit is still with us at the /
institution so no I think it's been
written in more recent histories as
someone who said oh let the economy go
as it is lays a Fair economics but his
view of central banks was always
somewhat more refined than that but he
really wanted central bankers to do was
to let the economy have its business
cycles not to ensure that economies had
20 or 30 year periods of growth but the
business cycle was important and central
bankers would be putting themselves and
their economies in harm's way if they
tried to sort of overly adjust their
tools as the tools are pretty blunt
right but but what Milton had written
about for most of his career ends people
like me who consider ourselves trying to
think about Milton's lessons today when
you get stopped by a crisis like the
crisis of 2008 or the crisis of 2020
that's when
in peace times you were humble in your
policy tools if you came into periods of
crisis with all of your credibility with
all of your monetary of tools at full at
full power you could act aggressively
what I tried to suggest in the piece
that I think you're referencing enough
in February and a piece of a couple of
weeks ago in marketing is what central
bankers should be doing in periods of
crisis especially like this is provide
liquidity against good collateral to all
solvent comers don't pick winners and
losers but the way I interpret that
policy is central bankers in peace times
are often focused the right of the
decimal point asking themselves
questions about Oh with inflation is now
1.7 percent what can we do to move it to
1.9 or 2.0 percent Milton's lessons that
at least I took from them is they focus
the left side of the decimal point the
world is a place that can be hit by
shocks at the strangest of circumstances
and when you're going to miss your goals
for inflation or output by a lot by full
percentage points you want to be poised
to act there to provide liquidity and
that's my judgment about what central
banks in the US and most of the world
should be doing as we speak all right
the stimulus bill I'll come back to the
Fed in a moment but first the stimulus
bill fiscal policy which which concerns
what the government did concerns
taxation and spending correct fiscal
policy here's the front front page of
the journal on March 27 the headline
Trump signs two trillion dollar
coronavirus stimulus bill and here's the
lead the bill is the largest relief
package in US history and extends aid to
many struggling Americans through direct
payments and expanded unemployment
insurance the package provides loans and
grants to businesses and augments
drained state coffers close quote you've
just told us about the importance of
monetary policy was this two trillion
dollar stimulus a good idea is it
necessary how do you judge it so I'd say
four
I don't like the language of it being a
stimulus bill I don't know what the
designers had in place but it strikes me
as quite odd our government has decided
to shut down most of the economy it
would be strange then with the other
hand if they were trying to get the
economy they could be going again right
if that's the balance of policy then
these policies are working at
cross-purposes and them and the money
would not be well spent
so my judgment if I look inside the four
corners of the two trillion dollar
expenditure I think about it this way
first the overall size and number of
zeros doesn't mean that much to me in a
period like this what matters more is
what's in the design because again my
judgment is not that central banks or
Congress needs to be filling holes in
aggregate demand it's that we need to at
this point be buying time seeing what
happens learn more if the fundamental
micro foundations of the economy alive
so that when we decide to in your
language take the patient off of the
induced coma that a patient can find is
first steps so inside the stimulus bill
I break it down like this up either call
half of it or so what I would describe
as income support this is where a rich
country we care very much for the least
well-off among us and call a trillion
dollars to try to find its way into
people's pockets that are less well-off
so they can make it through a period of
huge uncertainty I don't think about
that as stimulus and I think that's a
dangerous suggestion when we ran IR it
of induced comma and we could have a
discussion about whether that trillion
is well-spent I'll just make one make
one example no doubt that we're gonna
see the labor markets take the worst
term that we've seen since World War two
we're gonna see the labor markets people
getting thrown out of their jobs being
furloughed the unemployment rates
spiking I suspect somewhere into the
teens and so Congress you understand
wants to say listen many of these people
were late becoming into the work force
they finally are somewhere
you're full employment people in the
bottom quartile or so are getting their
first wage gains in the last 18 months
that they've gotten over though of
course the last decade so that's a
feeling of compassion but in the design
of these policies it appears as though
in many states once people find their
way onto the sidelines and they're
getting unemployment insurance we have
to ask ourself in economic so rather
cold-hearted question are they getting
paid more for leisure than they are for
work hmm what we want to do is we want
there to be a generous safety net for
people who find themselves in harm's way
through no fault of their own but when
the world when the patient comes out of
that dudes coma we want them to reattach
themselves immediately to the labor
force want them to come back and be part
of the American Dream be part of their
employer be part of this dynamic economy
in the last crisis what we ended up with
for nearly a decade was a generation of
workers that suffered from bouts of
despair they had detached from the labor
force and if we learned anything from
the post-crisis arrow vote nine we don't
want to commit that same sin again
because it's not good for those workers
it's certainly not good for our cop and
what was the policy error in 2008 if it
was a policy error and not since
sometimes bad things simply happen but
was there a specific policy error was
that the Obama what was it an 800
billion dollar so-called stimulus was
that the error that enabled permitted
coaxed people into leaving the labor
force when really it would have been
better for them if they had not so I
would say it's probably the story for
another show but if I could summarize I
would say central bank monetary policy
after the crisis had ended called at the
end of 2010 was largely the only game in
town this school regulatory and trade
policies were not bolstering the economy
central banks were trying to do
everything or to most of things in
peacetime and central banks at that
point could not do a lot after the
crisis to get the economic growth
to the 3% level or so that we've grown
accustomed to in the post-war era so
with low growth that mark the period
from the end of the last crisis until
just a couple of years ago 2% economic
growth that's great for Wall Street
that's great for the well-to-do and
highly educated but you really need that
extra percentage point of growth so that
those with skills that could reattach
the labor force do so because the labor
markets are then hot enough and pay
enough to reengage that labor force just
to put a number 2 on it that we thought
there was a generation of people that
had permanently detached from the labor
force over the last three or four years
before the last three or four months we
found with a pretty hot economy those
people found their way back into the
labor force and we're making huge wages
and so that's why we have to be
particularly concerned as citizens never
mind as economists been thinking about
how we don't put them back in a detached
way for the labor force they need every
opportunity to find their way back
hence you can hear my my my call for
liquidity for all rather than fiscal
policies that might discourage work on
the other side of this right ok I'm
thinking I'm thinking because this is
the only way I can think I'm picturing
my own experience here my own
neighborhood so before the actual
shutdown took place there was a week or
two when things were bad but we hadn't
all been told to shelter in place and
our friends got immer got who's
producing this very show as we speak
came up here and gave me a call he was
staying at the Stanford Park Hotel which
you know well Stanford Park must have
150 rooms
it's a medium-sized hotel it's not a
convention center but it's not a little
place either Scott was one of three get
three guests of that in that whole hotel
so you can't run a hotel like that and
there were people in the kitchen who
aren't in that kitchen I don't know
about the Stanford Park but people
ordinary wage earners maids
waiters waitresses the correct way I'm
asking to think about the stimulus is at
least in part the good bit of the
stimulus the bit of the stimulus that
Kevin wash approves of is expanded
unemployment to help those people make
their rent it's that right that's right
that's right
the purpose of again I won't use the
stimulus because we're telling that
Hotel effectively to close down but I
want to tell them to close down and
reopen at the same moment government
policy shouldn't be doing that but what
we're really trying to say to the hotel
is shut down for now and when this light
switch goes back on in a period measured
hopefully in months but potentially
longer we want you and the labor force
to reattach quickly so we want to
provide support for those that through
no fault of their own have been hurt but
we want them to reattach quickly and we
want the momentum that the US economy
had to pick up and accelerate and when
we design policies that do the opposite
we need to worry about a period at the
other end of this of low growth that's
pretty good for Wall Street keeps
interest rates down but isn't so good
for that group of people so that's a
large portion of what Congress has done
in their tutorial Kevin you've got me
now thinking back in my old
speechwriters frame of mind so the
correct way where were you and I back in
Washington the correct way to write a
speech for a senator or for the
President or for a member of Congress to
describe this two trillion dollar
package strike the word stimulus you've
made that point a couple of times now
that's just the wrong way to think about
that about it but even sheltering in
place has costs and the stimulus to the
extent that it's a good thing to the
extent that it was the right thing to do
to the extent that Kevin wash approves
of it this the stimulus is rent in
utilities that's a very nice groceries
rent and utilities that's right and what
and what what the bill is trying to do
is it's trying to say let's take a
timeout together we're rich in general
country were in this together and we're
going to come out of it better stronger
faster so the second big component of
the two trillion dollars was a liquidity
provision from the United States
Congress to the United States Treasury
which I hope and expect will then
largely be devoted to the Federal
Reserve and that's so that the Federal
Reserve can quickly use liquidity
provisions in its own structure and its
own practices and provide liquidity to
all solvent comers so if you were that
hotel you were talking about and you
were a solvent business with good
collateral and you could have gotten a
loan from your local bank on January 1st
2020 the Federal Reserve will stand
behind that loan so when the hotel goes
to his local bank and said hey I need a
credit line for the next 90 days that
Bank might say well you don't have any
customers Scott was one of the only
guests there I wish I could give it to
you but I can't well in this formulation
again if Congress grants the money to
Treasury and Treasury grants it to the
Fed and the Fed designs a program the
way I've described over the last few
weeks the bank says well yeah I know
your business I know exactly how you
were on January 1st and I trust you and
you've been a very good borrower so I am
going to give you the 90 days of credit
line and I will extend that as long as
the virus affects your business and in
the unlikely event that the hotel can't
survive this period in that unlikely
event the bank won't take the losses the
US government will take the first loss
on that okay that's my judgment about
how the Fed the Treasury and the
Congress can work together and buy time
for that hotel because we're really
trying to buy time for the people in
that kitchen spend just a moment longer
if you would explaining the nightmare
scenario the hotel goes to the bank the
bank says sorry you that you don't have
customers I can't give you any more
credit and that happens throughout the
economy what what comes next
so what happens after that if that
happens all throughout the economy the
economy in the u.s. is interconnected
and I should say interconnected that the
world is suffering far more even in the
u.s. both epidemiologically but also
economically if that happens you have a
cascade of bankruptcies excess gain of
losses and credit markets a loss of
confidence of a retrenchment of animal
spirits and you have what could be a
garden-variety recession and turns into
something far darker again I can't help
but make reference the period between
the two great wars and say these are the
possibilities that we have to ward off
that we have to ensure doesn't happen so
that that if I may ask the coronavirus
is nobody well we could argue whether
the Chinese should have acted different
set that aside it's nobody's fault in
this country but if we permit the
Cascade of the kind that you just
described a ripple of business failures
that would be somebody's fault that
would be we know enough to prevent that
I'm stating this but it's in the form of
a question we know enough to prevent
that and that's simple competence that's
not too much to ask of the government
correct so I agree with you we know that
but we also know another lesson and it's
a lesson that we should take seriously
in the context of the bill the
president's side we also know that if we
decide to take over american-style
capitalism replace dynamism and
creativity with a government-owned
airline industry a government own
national defense industry a government
that now says who should be on your
board and why a government that then
says to the airlines
you can't fire workers or you can't as a
restaurant fire anybody you must keep
your locations open that's the other
error and we would then be doing real
harm to American style capitalism so in
my judgment between these two polls when
we are confronted with this degree of
uncertainty rather than trying to
stimulate the economy what we should be
trying to do is buy time and that's
ultimately what central
were born to do alright this brings us
to the Fed now I'm quoting the Wall
Street Journal to you once again here's
the March 30 headline the Fed
transformed and here's the lead
mr. Powell that's Jerome Powell Jay
Powell the chairman of the Fed has
placed the Fed on wartime footing
cutting rates to near zero purchasing
huge quantities of government debt and
breaking a taboo lending to American
businesses close quote now by the way in
your piece in February you urged the Fed
to do just exactly that invoking
something I didn't know existed which is
section 13 three of the Federal Reserve
Charter but to leave it to Kevin wash to
know all about it and to make direct
loans to businesses we'll come to that
in a moment that's the one bit of it all
that raises my eyebrow you being you I'm
sure will be able to reassure me on that
overall though how do you grade the Fed
under Jay Powell okay well I've got a
first take issue what I did not want for
direct loans from the Federal Reserve to
individual enterprises what I would like
would be use the banking system to have
the banks underwrite loans based on
their own underwriting criteria pre
virus and should those loans turn bad
the Fed as the regulator of those banks
will ask whether that loan was properly
underwritten that as of the first of the
year and if that loan turns bad and
someone needs to pay the Congress to the
Treasury and the Treasury to the Fed
pays those losses that's what that's
quite different than the end of the
night and never lie approve I approve of
that plan Kevin Ferrari right so I
already reassured me on that one all
right I am NOT comforted by the idea
that the central bank wanders away from
its remit and decides to pick winners
and losers that's again why my view is
liquidity for all solvent comers so we
don't make those distinctions that were
ill-equipped to me and the correct thing
is for the Fed to act as the backs to
push liquidity into the system because
Jay Powell and the Board of Governors
cannot know
the managers of the hotel across the
street here in Palo Alto California
those banking relationships thousands of
banks across the country what they need
is money they don't need to be told
about their customers correct
exactly all right yes okay so cutting
interest rates nearly to zero all right
the layman says first of all that does
my savings account no good but I can
understand why you'd want to do that but
isn't that a little bit scary because if
you cut rates almost to zero you have
just shot the last arrow in your quiver
so you're going to provoke me yet again
Peter I would say these guys are three
or four weeks into the war of all wars
and so I'm going to try to hesitate to
be critical they are in the bunker I was
in the bunker and I remember three or
four weeks into the bunker last time we
had a lot of would-be quarterbacks back
benchers from the bleachers saying what
we could and should do so I'm gonna do
my best to resist that temptation what I
will say though Peter is this you are
reprimanding me very very elegantly
covenant what I will say is this if we
had come into this period with the
traditional ammunition that one goes
that ones comes into after a 10 or 12
year period of economic recovery and if
we had stayed nearer and very close to
our traditional remit then I believe we
would have had a lot more ammunition a
lot more credibility so that when a shot
comes we'd be even more ready for it it
is fair to say Peter that no one saw
this shot coming but central bankers are
in the business of saying I don't know
what the shot will be but I want to be
prepared for it that's mission number
one so over the course of the last dozen
years or so the question we should have
always asked is what could possibly go
wrong instead of suggesting that
everything was going just perfectly and
financial stability was in great shape
the economy was great there are plenty
of cheerleaders out there in the world
and the central bank doesn't need to be
a month
all right Kent the way out a few well
before I get to the question about how
how this will end let me ask you this
are you satisfied there was a lot of
controversy and I myself am stuck
between central bankers who know a great
deal more than I do about banking and
public health officials who know worlds
more than I do
about viruses but the argument runs as
follows shutting down this economy not
only has its the argument runs as
follows we hear over and over again Joe
Biden Bernie Sanders have been saying
this Joe Biden said there's no there's
not there's there's an extra point and
the Dow Jones is not worth one single
human life and that is an absurd
statement the it's a false dichotomy a
false choice between lives on one hand
and money on the other that's nonsense
if you shut down the economy just as you
said a moment ago we learned from the
experience of 2008 if we know anything
we know that unemployment
underemployment has horrible health
effects in itself the opioid use
alcoholism depression and even suicide
if you want it to be as crude as to do
it you could probably make an argument
that there will be as many lives lost
under certain economic circumstances as
might be lost under certain
circumstances in the managing of the
coronavirus are you satisfied that the
reaction that's shutting down the
economy remains the correct policy
response to the coronavirus are you
simply deferring to public health
officials how do you feel about that
absolutely basic threshold question so
I'm not sufficiently privy to the debate
before the president is in health
advisors come to the press briefing room
where you spent plenty of time so I
don't know those inputs
I'm institutionally
parental to the scientists in healthcare
all right look what I would see but I
would suggest this I think in some sense
it's a false choice we make trade-offs
every day making policy making
government policy is about making
choices there are again the cite Milton
very few free lunches out there and if
there were we've taken them in the in
disputed between the wars so I guess
what I would broadly say is what the
government could do as a matter of
policy
now that secretary of the Treasury the
Congress the bed chair the president
have ruled out a lot of new programs and
a lot of new money we heard a lot of
them music but we haven't heard the
lyrics so my suggestion is that they
announce what the economic war plan
really is this is the first war that I
can think of in history where the enemy
can't read so we can tell the whole war
plan out there so it's the suggestion
would be pick a date at which the
President believes that the economy will
be ready to begin to normalize at which
point he and the health care officials
believe we can take the foot off the
brake and set those dates as series of
expectations tell the story of the
incredible fed facilities that have been
rolled out each with a one-page document
and the Treasury secretary and Fed
Chairman then can describe and long
beautifully written prose by the likes
of you and others what their diagnosis
is what our objectives are what are the
goal posts and that kind of certainty I
think will be important for businesses
so they can prepare for what happens on
the other side and important for
households and citizens to understand
how we get from here to where we want to
be so I think it's time for the lyrics
to catch up with the music and I think
this would be the appropriate time to do
that so I would say clarity is what's
called for not certainty all right Kevin
what your instinct your very informed
instinct but still all I'm asking for is
your instinct from the moment we don't
know when that moment will be but from
the moment
the president says we're ready to start
again from that moment how long will it
be until things feel normal
I'm asking how long will it take to
restart the economy so I think it'll
take longer than most believe again I
don't think the economy can be turned on
as quickly as it was turned off I think
that's in general a great benefit of the
American capitalist system that it
relies upon subcomponents incomes and
components relies on a complex supply
chain and complex demand chain so I
think trying to restart that will take a
while and there'll be some sputtering
along the way money
weeks months quarters quarters I think
it takes a while so as a base case I
don't think that we're gonna look back
and say as some my profession suggests
well that was a terrible second quarter
and everything's just swell secondly
Peter I would say there's no going back
in some senses I think this crisis is a
fundamental one and will fundamentally
changed human behavior the consumption
patterns of the US I think in all
likelihood are going to be fundamentally
different on the other side businesses
and putting together global supply
chains will be different and so if
anything if I think back of the
discussions you and I have had around
campus over the last couple of years the
big challenges of the us-china fight the
big challenges of deep globalization the
big challenges of the role of the
Federal Reserve there's no going back in
my instinct is that this crisis will
accelerate the trends that have already
been in place of debate about China and
the US and the future of the 21st
century how linked the global economy
should really be which should be the
role and responsibility of the central
bank and I think households and
businesses will be quite different on
the other side and in some sense
different can be better but can also be
quite a transition to get there so I
don't foresee any any quick snapback and
so for those that have these and use in
their alphabet to describe
that might be what happens in the
economic model that doesn't strike me as
what's going to happen on the ground all
right do you know any good jokes Kevin I
really what I want is a V for this show
I'd like to come out of this on a high
note but it just doesn't look as though
we're going to do that today give it a
shot let me give it a shot this is this
is this is not a time for jokes even
though as we're taping it's April Fool's
Day but these are serious times and I
would say a few things one I'd rather
have our problems in the United States
confronted by this virus than anyone
else's problems in the world I think
that our economic prospects relative to
grow through the rest of the world are
far better that doesn't mean we're all
going to be booming but under Mount Ida
yes better than John I believe that this
is hitting the Chinese hitting the
Europeans at very salient very difficult
moments for their own economic growth
and so as difficult as the challenges
behind the in front of us I'd rather be
a policymaker and a thinker thinking
about how does the u.s. endure this and
thrive on the other end rather than
trying to cope with a multi-year
recession or an economy and a radical
transition like China from being an
export-led economy to one that will be
overwhelmingly domestic and orientation
as a policy matter so let me begin with
that relative good news and on an
absolute basis I'll say something which
is I think a little bit difficult to
have the conference I wish we could
which is we can come out of this better
stronger faster and more productive not
just on a relative basis but an absolute
basis but the conduct of Economic Policy
has got to be better to do that we have
to ensure that this economy can thrive
on the other end if we find ourselves in
the next hundred days or the hundred
days after that picking winners and
losers across our industry but in
government officials effectively as
overseers on the boards of America
enterprises or do things that makes it
harder for companies to decide
how to survive this maybe they need to
lay off a third of their employees I'd
rather them do that than go bankrupt and
lay them all off so we need to embrace
that kind of thing and the question for
Public Policy in the next year or so
well economic policy rise to the
challenge so that we're stronger and an
absolute basis or not and that's where
folks like you and me in the world of
ideas that once served in government
where we might be able to poke and prod
in the right direction so we hope let me
a little cluster of last questions Kevin
you just you just identified the worst
lesson the wrongest lesson so to speak
that we could learn from all this would
be to aggrandize the state to aggrandize
the government what's the best lesson we
can learn from this the best lesson is
emergencies are fundamentally different
than peace times the emergency of 2089
was serious and it required some degree
of radicalism by the central bank
that's radicalism that I think is
consistent with the central bank's
founding mission in peace times between
the last crisis in this crisis that's
when central banks and other policy
makers need to go back to their narrow
agreement and let the economy do its bit
and when we get confronted with the next
emergency which we have now central
bankers can be aggressive again I wish
that they'd come into this period
without treating the last decade like
every day was an emergency like the
stock market when it falls 11 percent is
somehow this calamitous thing we need to
prepare in peacetime for wartime but for
you and me at this moment
what did former Secretary of Defense say
you go to war with the army you've got
up behind you on and when I look at the
people that are in the Army on the field
I'm encouraged not discouraged what
they've done in the last three or four
weeks is reasonably impressive that are
a very high degree of difficulty a
higher degree of difficulty than I think
we confronted more than a decade ago
they've got our support they need our
prodding and they need to ensure that we
get to the other side of this emergency
and not treat the
decade that follows as though the
actions that were undertaken in the
spring of 2020 marks the economy for the
next decade two last questions if you
could offer one sentence of advice to
President Trump whom you know what would
you say so I don't know that well I
certainly didn't know him until he was
president but I have I've had a
discussion or two with him over the
intervening years but but not in recent
times I guess my my intuition is
something that he seems to have taken
seriously in the last several weeks this
is a war this is a wartime president in
the same way that the health care
officials that stand behind them at the
podium
have been compliments to him I've
explained the facts and told what's on
the ground
the strong economic team that he's
assembled across cup Treasury the
Federal Reserve and others they need to
describe their economic more plan with
the clarity and specificity that we've
heard from the public healthcare
officials and that description of lyrics
that description of the battle plan
would be confidence inducing even if the
news every day isn't the greatest it's a
big and mature and sophisticated country
we've been through tougher battles than
this before in our long history and we
can get through this one but I don't
think we get through it through
surrogates I don't think we get through
it through subterfuge I think we get
through it by being candid and open
about the seriousness of the moment and
what the battle plan is so we're better
stronger and faster on the other side so
I hope that podium is filled not just
with healthcare officials but with
officials across the government national
security and Economic Security laying
out their war plans because the country
is big and mature and can handle it
last question your word of advice to a
different person the ordinary American
stuck at home worried about making his
or her mortgage payment so I wouldn't I
I don't consider myself well-equipped to
do that
what I would suggest is the challenges
that that person has is very different
the challenge is that you and I are
privileged to have we can do much of our
work remotely we can find ways maybe and
efficiently to think about the world of
ideas or think about financial markets
or sit alone with a yellow sheet of pad
and sketch out thoughts but are
hardworking Americans they need a job to
go to and they need a place to go I
think what they need to hear is from
their economic leaders to tell them that
there's a plan and they should come with
them I'll just end with a final bit of
advice and that's to our students over
recent years Peter as you know I teach
some economics at the Graduate School of
Business at Stanford and I've noticed in
the last two or three years I talked
about the financial crisis of 2008 and 9
and they look up from their tablets but
I could have very easily been talking
about the Great Depression I mean they
had heard of it they knew it was a big
deal but I could have been talking about
1929 it had no resonance with them and
so I ended up trying to reframe that
discussion differently than you or I
would have taught at 6 or 7 years ago
well let me give a message to that group
of students today there are now off
scattered around the country figuring
out about online learning this crisis is
serious
this crisis is scarring but this crisis
also is filled with opportunity and in
vintages if I were the graduating class
of 2020 from an undergraduate
institution or a community college or a
business school you'd frankly rather
emerge coming out of a crisis or even in
the darkest days of a crisis than 10 or
11 years into a bull market created in
part by a very aggressive central bank
policy around the world and high acid
prices so that they might be down they
might be a little despairing about their
job is I'd say for that cadre of people
they've never had it so good and for the
group of people that are already part of
the workforce this is a very tough
transition and policymakers even has
bends like you and me you need to use
this as an opportunity to give
some lessons from the past so that that
worker finds more opportunity not less
after what is no doubt any grave and
serious challenge over the next hundred
days
Kevin wash of the Hoover Institution
thank you for uncommon knowledge the
Hoover Institution and fox nation on
Peter Robinson
[Music]
you